format.md, before:

# Package Format Specification

## Description

### Overview

The OCI Package Format Specification defines how to bundle binary (eg. application, runtime, resources) content as an OCI Artifacts. A compatible Package consists of package payload, and package metadata.

### Layers

The content layer always consists of the package data.

The config layer consists of a JSON-formatted string, which contains package metadata described by [Package Metadata Specification](metadata.md).

### Format

The OCI Package Format Spec consists of two layers bundled together:

A layer specifying package metadata configuration for the target package (application, runtime, etc.)
A layer containing the package data itself

The **content** layer also has a defined media type, depending on payload:

| Media Types                                                 | Description                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| ----------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| application/vnd.oci.empty.v1+json                           | Empty data. No content layer file, see [empty descriptor](https://github.com/opencontainers/image-spec/blob/main/manifest.md#guidance-for-an-empty-descriptor).                               |
| application/vnd.rdk.package.content.layer.v1.tar            | Package data as a tarball                                                                                                                                                                     |
| application/vnd.rdk.package.content.layer.v1.tar+gzip       | Package data as gzipped tarball                                                                                                                                                               |
| application/vnd.rdk.package.content.layer.v1.zip            | Package data as zip file. This would be the same as the traditional W3C widget zip contents, but without the config.xml and signature1.xml file you'd typically have in a traditional widget. |
| application/vnd.rdk.package.content.layer.v1.erofs+dmverity | Package data as an EROFS file system image with appended dm-verity hash tree. This layer format is required to have annotations that describe the dm-verity root hash, salt and offset.       |

Each layer is associated with its own Media Type, which is stored in the OCI Descriptor for that layer:

| Component Name       | Type                     | Key Media Types                                                                                                                                                                                                              | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| -------------------- | ------------------------ | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Package OCI Artifact | JSON Object              | application/vnd.rdk.package.config.v1+json                                                                                                                                                                                   | Custom package metadata - [package.json](metadata.json)                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
|                      | none                     | application/vnd.oci.empty.v1+json                                                                                                                                                                                            | _Application_<br><br> Custom package metadata provides all the information needed to run the application. The content layer references an empty descriptor and contains no actual data. The content layer file is not included in the OCI Artifact.                           |
|                      | binary data (byte array) | application/vnd.rdk.package.content.layer.v1.tar<br>application/vnd.rdk.package.content.layer.v1.tar+gzip<br>application/vnd.rdk.package.content.layer.v1.zip<br>application/vnd.rdk.package.content.layer.v1.erofs+dmverity | _Runtime_<br><br>Consist specific binaries, resources, configurations and shared libraries that build up final runtime, eg.<br><br>- rdkbrowser<br>- cobalt<br>- flutter<br>- luna<br><br>_Application_<br><br>Contains application binary, resources, shared libraries, etc. |

OCI Artifact Manifest also consist artifactType always set to:

`application/vnd.rdk.package+type`

### Example

#### Application Package - Browser Test Tool 

##### Package Manifest

The following manifest provide an example of the OCI Artifact descriptors for an Application Package stored according to the specification:

```json
{
  "schemaVersion": 2,
  "mediaType": "application/vnd.oci.image.manifest.v1+json",
  "artifactType": "application/vnd.rdk.package+type",
  "config": {
    "mediaType": "application/vnd.rdk.package.config.v1+json",
    "digest": "sha256:<digest>",
    "size": "<size>",
    "annotations": {
      "org.opencontainers.image.title": "package.json"
    }
  },
  "layers": [
    {
      "mediaType": "application/vnd.rdk.package.content.layer.v1.tar+gzip",
      "digest": "sha256:<digest>",
      "size": "<size>",
      "annotations": {
        "org.opencontainers.image.title": "package.tar.gz"
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

##### Package Metadata

Browser Test Tool example application package metadata.

```json
{
  "id": "com.sky.browser_test_tool",
  "version": "4.3.5",
  "name": "Browser Test Tool",
  "packageType": "application",
  "packageSpecifier": "html",
  "entryPoint": ".",
  "dependencies": {
    "com.sky.rdkbrowser": ">=2.7.2-kirkstone"
  },
  "permissions": [
    "urn:rdk:permission.internet",
    "urn:rdk:permission:firebolt",
    "urn:rdk:permission:thunder",
    "urn:entos:permissionr:as-access",
    "urn:entos:permissior:as-player"
  ],
  "configuration": {
    "urn:rdk:config:platform": {
      "architecture": "arm",
      "variant": "v7",
      "os": "linux"
    },
    "urn:rdk:config:memory": {
      "system": "450M",
      "gpu": "200M"
    },
    "urn:rdk:config:storage": {
      "maxLocalStorage": "32M"
    },
    "urn:rdk:config:drm-support": [
      "com.widevine.alpha",
      "com.microsoft.playready"
    ]
  }
}
```

##### Package Data

Browser Test Tool example application package.

```
/package
├── icon.png
├── index.html
├── override.js
├── rdk.config
```

#### Application Package - web application with no package data

##### Package Manifest

The following manifest provides an example of the OCI Artifact descriptors for an Application Package stored according to the specification:

```json
{
  "schemaVersion": 2,
  "mediaType": "application/vnd.oci.image.manifest.v1+json",
  "artifactType": "application/vnd.rdk.package+type",
  "config": {
    "mediaType": "application/vnd.rdk.package.config.v1+json",
    "digest": "sha256:<digest>",
    "size": "<size>",
    "annotations": {
      "org.opencontainers.image.title": "package.json"
    }
  },
  "layers": [
    {
      "mediaType": "application/vnd.oci.empty.v1+json",
      "digest": "sha256:44136fa355b3678a1146ad16f7e8649e94fb4fc21fe77e8310c060f61caaff8a",
      "size": 2
    }
  ]
}
```

##### Package Metadata

Web application with no package data example application package metadata.

```json
{
  "id": "com.rdkcentral.wiki",
  "version": "0.1.0",
  "name": "RDK Central Wiki",
  "packageType": "application",
  "packageSpecifier": "html",
  "entryPoint": "https://wiki.rdkcentral.com/",
  "dependencies": {
    "com.sky.rdkbrowser": ">=2.7.2-kirkstone"
  },
  "permissions": [
    "urn:rdk:permission.internet",
    "urn:rdk:permission:firebolt"
  ],
  "configuration": {
    "urn:rdk:config:platform": {
      "architecture": "arm",
      "variant": "v7",
      "os": "linux"
    },
    "urn:rdk:config:memory": {
      "system": "450M",
      "gpu": "200M"
    },
    "urn:rdk:config:storage": {
      "maxLocalStorage": "32M"
    }
  }
}
```

#### Runtime Package - rdkbrowser

##### Package Manifest

The following manifest provide an example of the OCI Artifact descriptors for an Runtime Package stored according to the specification:

```json
{
  "schemaVersion": 2,
  "mediaType": "application/vnd.oci.image.manifest.v1+json",
  "artifactType": "application/vnd.rdk.package+type",
  "config": {
    "mediaType": "application/vnd.rdk.package.config.v1+json",
    "digest": "sha256:<digest>",
    "size": "<size>",
    "annotations": {
      "org.opencontainers.image.title": "package.json"
    }
  },
  "layers": [
    {
      "mediaType": "application/vnd.rdk.package.content.layer.v1.tar+gzip",
      "digest": "sha256:<digest>",
      "size": "<size>",
      "annotations": {
        "org.opencontainers.image.title": "runtime.tar.gz"
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

##### Package Metadata

Browser example runtime package metadata.

```json
{
  "id": "com.sky.rdkbrowser",
  "version": "2.7.2-kirkstone",
  "name": "com.sky.rdkbrowser",
  "packageType": "runtime",
  "packageSpecifier": "html",
  "entryPoint": "SkyBrowserLauncher",
  "dependencies": {
    "com.rdk.base.system": ">=1.1.0"
  }
}
```

##### Package Data

Browser example runtime package.

```
/runtime
├── SkyBrowserLauncher
├── fonts
│ ├── Glametrix.otf
│ ├── GlametrixBold.otf
│ ├── GlametrixLight.otf
│ ├── NotoEmoji-Regular.woff2
│ ...
│ └── noto-sans-kr-v27-korean-regular.woff2
├── fonts.conf
├── icon.png
├── qtvirtualkeyboard
│ ├── 5.15
│ │ └── SkyVirtualKeyboard
│ └── README.md
├── signature1.xml
└── wpewebkit
├── extensions
│ ├── libAAMPExtension.so
│ ├── ...
│ └── libWpeQueryExtension.so
└── libSkyWebKitBackend.so
```

Commit message:

address Piotrs review remark of empty JSON payload {}

format.md, after:

# Package Format Specification

## Description

### Overview

The OCI Package Format Specification defines how to bundle binary (eg. application, runtime, resources) content as an OCI Artifacts. A compatible Package consists of package payload, and package metadata.

### Layers

The content layer always consists of the package data.

The config layer consists of a JSON-formatted string, which contains package metadata described by [Package Metadata Specification](metadata.md).

### Format

The OCI Package Format Spec consists of two layers bundled together:

A layer specifying package metadata configuration for the target package (application, runtime, etc.)
A layer containing the package data itself

The **content** layer also has a defined media type, depending on payload:

| Media Types                                                 | Description                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| ----------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| application/vnd.oci.empty.v1+json                           | Empty data. No content layer file, see [empty descriptor](https://github.com/opencontainers/image-spec/blob/main/manifest.md#guidance-for-an-empty-descriptor).                               |
| application/vnd.rdk.package.content.layer.v1.tar            | Package data as a tarball                                                                                                                                                                     |
| application/vnd.rdk.package.content.layer.v1.tar+gzip       | Package data as gzipped tarball                                                                                                                                                               |
| application/vnd.rdk.package.content.layer.v1.zip            | Package data as zip file. This would be the same as the traditional W3C widget zip contents, but without the config.xml and signature1.xml file you'd typically have in a traditional widget. |
| application/vnd.rdk.package.content.layer.v1.erofs+dmverity | Package data as an EROFS file system image with appended dm-verity hash tree. This layer format is required to have annotations that describe the dm-verity root hash, salt and offset.       |

Each layer is associated with its own Media Type, which is stored in the OCI Descriptor for that layer:

| Component Name       | Type                     | Key Media Types                                                                                                                                                                                                              | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| -------------------- | ------------------------ | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Package OCI Artifact | JSON Object              | application/vnd.rdk.package.config.v1+json                                                                                                                                                                                   | Custom package metadata - [package.json](metadata.json)                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
|                      | JSON Object                     | application/vnd.oci.empty.v1+json                                                                                                                                                                                            | _Application_<br><br> Is for packages that consist only out of metadata (eg. web apps) - config layer and hence have no real content layer - payload data. As defined by the OCI Image Specification, the corresponding content layer then consists solely of an empty JSON object, being {}                           |
|                      | binary data (byte array) | application/vnd.rdk.package.content.layer.v1.tar<br>application/vnd.rdk.package.content.layer.v1.tar+gzip<br>application/vnd.rdk.package.content.layer.v1.zip<br>application/vnd.rdk.package.content.layer.v1.erofs+dmverity | _Runtime_<br><br>Consist specific binaries, resources, configurations and shared libraries that build up final runtime, eg.<br><br>- rdkbrowser<br>- cobalt<br>- flutter<br>- luna<br><br>_Application_<br><br>Contains application binary, resources, shared libraries, etc. |

OCI Artifact Manifest also consist artifactType always set to:

`application/vnd.rdk.package+type`

### Example

#### Application Package - Browser Test Tool 

##### Package Manifest

The following manifest provide an example of the OCI Artifact descriptors for an Application Package stored according to the specification:

```json
{
  "schemaVersion": 2,
  "mediaType": "application/vnd.oci.image.manifest.v1+json",
  "artifactType": "application/vnd.rdk.package+type",
  "config": {
    "mediaType": "application/vnd.rdk.package.config.v1+json",
    "digest": "sha256:<digest>",
    "size": "<size>",
    "annotations": {
      "org.opencontainers.image.title": "package.json"
    }
  },
  "layers": [
    {
      "mediaType": "application/vnd.rdk.package.content.layer.v1.tar+gzip",
      "digest": "sha256:<digest>",
      "size": "<size>",
      "annotations": {
        "org.opencontainers.image.title": "package.tar.gz"
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

##### Package Metadata

Browser Test Tool example application package metadata.

```json
{
  "id": "com.sky.browser_test_tool",
  "version": "4.3.5",
  "name": "Browser Test Tool",
  "packageType": "application",
  "packageSpecifier": "html",
  "entryPoint": ".",
  "dependencies": {
    "com.sky.rdkbrowser": ">=2.7.2-kirkstone"
  },
  "permissions": [
    "urn:rdk:permission.internet",
    "urn:rdk:permission:firebolt",
    "urn:rdk:permission:thunder",
    "urn:entos:permissionr:as-access",
    "urn:entos:permissior:as-player"
  ],
  "configuration": {
    "urn:rdk:config:platform": {
      "architecture": "arm",
      "variant": "v7",
      "os": "linux"
    },
    "urn:rdk:config:memory": {
      "system": "450M",
      "gpu": "200M"
    },
    "urn:rdk:config:storage": {
      "maxLocalStorage": "32M"
    },
    "urn:rdk:config:drm-support": [
      "com.widevine.alpha",
      "com.microsoft.playready"
    ]
  }
}
```

##### Package Data

Browser Test Tool example application package.

```
/package
├── icon.png
├── index.html
├── override.js
├── rdk.config
```

#### Application Package - web application with no package data

##### Package Manifest

The following manifest provides an example of the OCI Artifact descriptors for an Application Package stored according to the specification:

```json
{
  "schemaVersion": 2,
  "mediaType": "application/vnd.oci.image.manifest.v1+json",
  "artifactType": "application/vnd.rdk.package+type",
  "config": {
    "mediaType": "application/vnd.rdk.package.config.v1+json",
    "digest": "sha256:<digest>",
    "size": "<size>",
    "annotations": {
      "org.opencontainers.image.title": "package.json"
    }
  },
  "layers": [
    {
      "mediaType": "application/vnd.oci.empty.v1+json",
      "digest": "sha256:44136fa355b3678a1146ad16f7e8649e94fb4fc21fe77e8310c060f61caaff8a",
      "size": 2
    }
  ]
}
```

##### Package Metadata

Web application with no package data example application package metadata.

```json
{
  "id": "com.rdkcentral.wiki",
  "version": "0.1.0",
  "name": "RDK Central Wiki",
  "packageType": "application",
  "packageSpecifier": "html",
  "entryPoint": "https://wiki.rdkcentral.com/",
  "dependencies": {
    "com.sky.rdkbrowser": ">=2.7.2-kirkstone"
  },
  "permissions": [
    "urn:rdk:permission.internet",
    "urn:rdk:permission:firebolt"
  ],
  "configuration": {
    "urn:rdk:config:platform": {
      "architecture": "arm",
      "variant": "v7",
      "os": "linux"
    },
    "urn:rdk:config:memory": {
      "system": "450M",
      "gpu": "200M"
    },
    "urn:rdk:config:storage": {
      "maxLocalStorage": "32M"
    }
  }
}
```

#### Runtime Package - rdkbrowser

##### Package Manifest

The following manifest provide an example of the OCI Artifact descriptors for an Runtime Package stored according to the specification:

```json
{
  "schemaVersion": 2,
  "mediaType": "application/vnd.oci.image.manifest.v1+json",
  "artifactType": "application/vnd.rdk.package+type",
  "config": {
    "mediaType": "application/vnd.rdk.package.config.v1+json",
    "digest": "sha256:<digest>",
    "size": "<size>",
    "annotations": {
      "org.opencontainers.image.title": "package.json"
    }
  },
  "layers": [
    {
      "mediaType": "application/vnd.rdk.package.content.layer.v1.tar+gzip",
      "digest": "sha256:<digest>",
      "size": "<size>",
      "annotations": {
        "org.opencontainers.image.title": "runtime.tar.gz"
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

##### Package Metadata

Browser example runtime package metadata.

```json
{
  "id": "com.sky.rdkbrowser",
  "version": "2.7.2-kirkstone",
  "name": "com.sky.rdkbrowser",
  "packageType": "runtime",
  "packageSpecifier": "html",
  "entryPoint": "SkyBrowserLauncher",
  "dependencies": {
    "com.rdk.base.system": ">=1.1.0"
  }
}
```

##### Package Data

Browser example runtime package.

```
/runtime
├── SkyBrowserLauncher
├── fonts
│ ├── Glametrix.otf
│ ├── GlametrixBold.otf
│ ├── GlametrixLight.otf
│ ├── NotoEmoji-Regular.woff2
│ ...
│ └── noto-sans-kr-v27-korean-regular.woff2
├── fonts.conf
├── icon.png
├── qtvirtualkeyboard
│ ├── 5.15
│ │ └── SkyVirtualKeyboard
│ └── README.md
├── signature1.xml
└── wpewebkit
├── extensions
│ ├── libAAMPExtension.so
│ ├── ...
│ └── libWpeQueryExtension.so
└── libSkyWebKitBackend.so
```
